---
layout: post
title: "CS2040 Recap"
date: 2021-6-10
---

## CS2040 AY20/21 Sem 1

## Overview
<font size="12"><li>NUSmods link: <a href="https://nusmods.com/modules/CS2040/data-structures-and-algorithms">CS2040</a></li>
<li>Lecturer: Dr. Chong Ket Fah</li>
<li>Assessments breakdown:</li>
<li>3% Tutorial Attendance</li>
<li>2% Lab Attendance</li>
<li>15% One Day Assignments (ODA, 10 x 1.5%)</li>
<li>12% Take Home Assignments (THA, 8 x 1.5%)</li>
<li>8% VisuAlgo Quiz (2 x 4%)</li>
<li>20% Midterm</li>
<li>40% Final Exam</li></font>

## Review
<font size="12"><li>Lectures & Tutorials</li>
The lectures usually last about two hours, during which Dr. Chong will cover all the important contents. He knows his stuff well and always has a nice and clean way to explain it. Personally, I found it is easy to get lost if you have no prior knowlege. So take a look at all the slides first! The tutorials are handled by the TAs, and it is relative easier to follow. The participation is compulsory.

The first week is like a Java crash course, it will mainly focus on the application of Java, not the coding styles and so on. The latter half is harder but also very importantin the finals, especially graphs and trees. 

<li>Coding assessments</li>
ODA and THA are graded and the weight is the same(somewhat not reasonable.) To earn the full mark, you need to pass all the test cases. ODA is once a week, and the key ideas will be discussed during the lab. THA is released twice a week with two questions. It is way more challenging. So start as early as possible. 

Plagiarism check is important! You can discuss with your peers but don't copy paste the code. 

<li>Midterms & Finals</li>
Both midterm and final are difficult. Multiple choice and true/false is relative easier, but the heavy part is to write a sample code to solve a given problem. It is a killer. 
Online quiz is not that hard, it is very possible to hack it if you are willing to take time.</font>

## Other useful links 
<font size="12"><li>Java API: <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/overview-summary.html">Java8 documentation</a></li>
<li>OOP concepts: <a href="https://nus-cs2030.github.io/1718-s2/lec01/index.html">CS2030 archives</a></li></font>
